I gave a talk last night to a bunch of
students at Clemson University and as
often happens when you talk to a bunch
of really sharp young people with good
questions it spawned a lot of thoughts
and and robust discussions and so what I
wanted to do was share some of the
insights from that conversation that I
had and give you a little bit of updates
in terms of uh kind of my current
thinking on post- labor economics so the
overarching questions that people ask
are if we are heading for uh an AI
Revolution a cognitive labor Revolution
how is the economy going to work after
everyone loses their jobs what
industries Will Survive and which ones
will collapse so we're going to unpack
this from an individual level as well as
an aggregate level looking at the
economy as a whole so if you're new to
this Channel or you're new to this
concept post- labor economics is a new
economic Paradigm that I personally
predict is going to be coming where the
the the very short version version is if
you no longer need human labor what else
changes if the combination of AI Quantum
Computing robots and other automation
replaces the need for human labor then
obviously a lot of things change this
means that we'll have to fundamentally
renegotiate our relationship with labor
with work with money with businesses and
so on and so forth so uh as AI ramps up
very quickly it's gaining new
capabilities on a literally on a weekly
basis sometimes on a da basis we are
heading towards a hyper abundance of
cognitive labor of knowledge work uh uh
in the third Industrial Revolution we
had a revolution of internet and
computers so communication accelerated
number crunching accelerated but by and
large automation was still relegated to
uh manufacturing processes now with this
rise of uh artificial intelligence we're
looking at a at what's called uh labor
substitution ution in which case you
have machines that are able to do new
kinds of automation we're able to not
just automate manufacturing jobs we're
able to automate knowledge work and so
this is going to drastically disrupt the
employment landscape and of course the
prevailing wisdom is that technology
always creates new jobs this isn't
necessarily true what technology does is
it lowers costs which we will also talk
about later in this video but when you
lower costs that frees up capital and
time and energy and money to be used
elsewhere which then creates new sectors
of Demands new uh total addressable
markets which then translates to new
jobs so there's actually several degrees
of separation between Technologies and
jobs growth However if those new markets
are also addressable by the machines
that we're building that's not
necessarily going to translate to human
jobs so with all that being said how is
this going to work how is this going to
look so what I'm going to present is not
necessarily a complete picture because
the idea of post- labor economics is
still evolving um but I I think it is a
worthwhile and and necessary
conversation to have uh moving forward
particularly as AI ramps up so primacia
benefits just at first glance there's
obviously a lot of benefits to having a
ramp up of AI otherwise we wouldn't be
doing it uh number one productivity
surge if you have better machines more
intelligent computers better language
models uh and more an increasingly
Advanced AI you get productivity
benefits this has already been
empirically proven where uh you know for
instance Microsoft just had their ignite
keynote speech where you know developers
that use co-pilots are 55% more
productive um in some cases depending on
the task you can be 200% more productive
and based on the work that I'm doing I
think that before too long we're just
going to replace replace human labor
altogether in some domains and it's
going to be just completely taken over
by machines so an example an old school
example of this is think about telephone
operators telephone operators were
entirely substituted by uh automatic uh
telephone routing machines likewise I
think that a lot of coding and a lot of
other uh computer Centric jobs are going
to be just fully automated away before
too long and the speed of productivity
is going to go up that's a good thing
but it also has KnockOn effects and
consequences scientific acceler ation so
as I've as I've produced some tools in
in the past about like you know reading
and summarizing papers and now of course
we have chatbots that have 100,000 token
Windows um you can stuff a whole bunch
of scientific papers into these um
there's also better AI based tools to
search for uh papers so pretty much
every scientist that I've talked to is
now using AI to accelerate their work
now obviously it's not doing primary
science on its own this is helping with
things like uh literature reviews and
then dra crafting manuscripts but still
it's it's helping and then you look at
the contribution that Labs such as deep
mind are doing where they're actually
creating fundamentally new Step changes
in what is scientifically capable with
tools like Alpha fold so if you're not
familiar with Alpha fold this is a um
this is a an AI model that allows you to
accurately predict the ways that
proteins will fold which has greatly
accelerated uh drug Discovery and other
kinds of biomedical
research there's also uh you know
creativity is is being dra ically
impacted now we're just starting to see
the first like full scale Productions of
text to video and I I don't remember who
but someone just predicted that the
first 90-minute Hollywood feature film
will be created within the next year and
so that also has profound implications
because if it becomes infinitely cheaper
to make a Hollywood Blockbuster film
that's going to disrupt Disney Hollywood
Netflix uh it's going to disrupt you
know the celebrity culture uh and and
also just the way that we consume uh
Digital entertainment so that is going
to be profoundly disruptive but again on
the surface it's a good thing because
then it's like okay well we get more
entertainment and it's cheaper and
faster and more
personalized we can also scale problem
solving um basically you know if you've
watched some of my recent videos about
agents and agent swarms um once you can
instantiate one good AI model you can
instantiate billions of copies of that
AI model that is that is cognitive labor
that is scalable in a way that is not
scalable with humans um and this is
something that I talk about when I talk
about like the automation Paradox is
because until you get that final
automation engine online nothing nothing
really happens um but then so 0% of the
work gets done until the very end and
then it's done and then 100% of the work
gets done very
quickly and then of course this will
also have knock on effects in terms like
education and many other industries that
we'll unpack later in this video one
thing that I predict is going to happen
is what I call price collapse so this is
not rocket science but as we're already
seeing uh for instance you know all the
graphics in this in this uh slide deck
were generated in a few seconds with AI
so rather than paying a graphic designer
hundreds if not thousands of dollars per
video it literally cost me a few cents
with Dolly and mid journey to make the
graphics so that is a price collapse of
a factor of hundreds if not tens of
thousands of uh times cheaper and faster
to do it you can expect the same kinds
of price collapses for all kinds of
services as I just mentioned once we
nail text to video that means a
90-minute Hollywood Blockbuster instead
of costing $100 million is going to cost
$110,000 if that maybe less uh Legal
Services uh Financial Services all kinds
of things Medical Services Healthcare
the KnockOn effects are very difficult
to overstate um because we don't really
have a mental model we don't have
personal experience when entire
uh job sectors and labor markets are
drastically disrupted not by 10% or 50%
but by 10,000% or a million per cheaper
we just don't have a way of
comprehending um the economic effects
that that has now even in Industries
where uh AI does not directly impact it
so for instance AI can't necessarily
make uh steel move faster in ships uh AI
can't make trees grow faster however by
removing human labor from from it um you
can still drastically reduce the cost of
primary goods and services like coal
steel uh Timber uh Stone asphalt you
know concrete those sorts of things and
so even even then some of the costs can
be reduced and avoided not 100% but
we're going to have this really
interesting economic Paradigm where some
things primary resources like land are
going to mostly hold their value but
other goods and services are going to
basically be free and this is why I
think that uh billionaires like Bill
Gates are buying up Forest land and
farmland because they're reading the
writing on the wall saying don't invest
in financial Industries don't invest in
healthcare don't invest in you know X Y
and Z instead invest in you know things
that are going to stick around and I'll
talk about industries that I predict are
going to stick around now one thing I
need to caution is this is not this is
not investing advice this is not
Financial advice this is just me reading
the te leaves um in what I see and my
interpretation of the investing behavior
of others in no in no means is this a uh
recommendation um because I could be
completely and fundamentally wrong about
all of this uh so you have been you have
been thoroughly warned another component
of this whole trend is reduced aggregate
demand so one of the students that I
gave the talk to asked a really
phenomenal question about if for
instance we all start losing our jobs
then we the consumers have less money
and in aggregate we will have less
demand
so this is going to impact what
businesses actually produce CU if we
have less demand businesses are going to
be less incentivized to produce goods
and services for us because well you
don't try and sell something to people
that don't have money um and so this is
actually one of the biggest uh questions
that I see all the time on the comments
as well is if we don't have money to
spend how is the economy going to work
so I'm not going to fully address this
in this video but uh citizens civilians
we're not the only consumer
there's also businesso business
transactions as well as business to
government transactions which I think
the the bulk of the economy is going to
shift to being B2B and b2g or you know
uh public sector uh expenditures now
there all are also some primary demands
that all civilians have and we'll talk
about that in just a second but I did
need to address that reduced aggregate
demand is probably one of the biggest
risk factors that we'll see in terms of
the economy stalling if and when we see
unemployment rates Rising sharply
because again you know if you go from a
sixf figure job or even a $50,000 job
and you end up uh stuck on unemployment
benefits or Universal basic income and
your income is reduced to 20,000 a year
um that is you have you know uh
substantially Less Market power uh
purchasing power in uh in the economy as
an actor and so this is really going to
fundamentally disrupt the economy again
it remains to be seen if this happens
but there has been some recent reports
um very alarming reports showing that uh
AI such as chat GPT are already
disrupting a very broad spectrum uh of
Industries and some in very unexpected
ways so I've told this story before but
uh one of my clients one of my former
clients um told me a story where once
the data an Analytics tool came out with
chat GPT it replaced an entire uh bio
bioinformatic statistician which that's
a job that you need a master's degree or
PhD to do and so then suddenly um you
know this tool that costs $20 a month uh
dislocates a job a human paying job that
would have cost $88,000 a month or more
to have a human in that role so that is
that is the magnitude of reduced
aggregate demand that we're looking for
or that we're looking at happening now
there is another component of this um
which is uh primary primary needs which
we'll talk about in just a moment so
what this is all leading to is uh
fundamentally New Market paradigms and
so this Paradigm Shift um this this
slide is more about some predictions
that I have so for instance if we have
robots if we have ai uh then perhaps as
we're kind of moving towards a you know
de globalization and there's Trends such
as circular economies and farm to table
I wonder if we're going to see the same
thing with uh manufacturing of goods and
also providing of services because if
you can just provide goods and services
on demand
locally rather than having long logistic
chains um so for instance imagine that
your theater is running a local version
that it just generated in the cloud
rather than waiting for Hollywood um
likewise imagine that you go to the
Amazon store and instead of some Goods
that are manufactured in China it's just
3D printed in the back so this is a
little bit more speculative um but you
know we already have some fictional
examples of this like the replicators
and Star Trek uh it's within the realm
of possibilities but I think more
eminently what we'll see is on demand
production of digital goods and digital
services such as Legal Services
entertainment music that sort of thing
that stuff is already in the pipeline uh
local manufacturing of of physical Goods
that may or may not happen but I just
wanted to point out that we are looking
at some of these kinds of shifts um now
one thing that could happen is that uh
as the economic landscape changes we
could see what's called industry
narrowing which is that uh many many
companies and many uh job sectors or or
market segments might just go away for
good because they're made completely
irrelevant those business models are
made completely obsolete um so time will
tell but it has happened before um an
example is you don't really have horse
breeders as a major uh economic thing
anymore why because horses as an entire
industry were replaced by automobiles
over a century ago and so while horse
care and horse breeding and carriage
building and all that fun stuff was a
major industry um because horses were
used for everything draft horses were
used on farms they were used for moving
goods and services and moving people now
that's no longer a thing and so we've
seen it before we will see it again but
it's difficult to predict exactly which
Industries will fully collapse um and be
kind of relegated to a luxury service
because there are still horse breeders
but this is more of a old money kind of
stuff so what are the industries that
will survive um just off the cuff here's
kind of what I brainstormed as the
industries that I think will probably
stick around and be and be relatively
durable again this is not investing
advice uh personally I am not invested
in any of these so take everything that
I'm saying here with a gigantic grain of
salt but first and foremost raw
materials and energy we're going to need
steel we're going to need concrete and
stone we're going to need Timber we're
going to need water right you know those
kinds of things are based on primary
needs so that is something that if
you're if you're a living breathing
human being you need food you need
shelter you need clothes so some of
those things are going the the demand
for those is going to be persistent even
if it's fully automated even if it is
done by machines and robots and AI um
semiconductors obviously if everything
is running on AI we're going to need
chip Fabs we're going to need memory
CPUs gpus Ram servers supercomputers
that industry is sticking around if
anything it's going to be bigger it
might be the primary industry honestly
um because I also predict that in the
long run it's just more economically
feasible for open source data and open
source models I just watched the entire
Microsoft ignite keynote speech
Microsoft is going all in on Clos Source
models like gp4 they're also going all
in on open source models so they are
hedging their bets whatever however it
panss out Microsoft and Nvidia it's all
going to be running on their hardware
and their Cloud platforms whether or not
it's produced by open AI whether or not
it's produced by meta or whether it's
not it's produced by Carnegie melon or
whoever else uh Robotics and automation
if you build the tools that build the
tools you're you're you're you're set so
there's a meme that goes around that
says during a gold rush sell pickaxes so
the ones that sell the pickaxes the ones
that sell the robots um that do
everything else the ones that sell the
automation hardware and software that do
everything else they're going to be fine
uh sustainable Tech so this is going to
have to do with uh water agriculture
sustainable farming solar energy other
Renewables um whether it's thorium
reactors or you know molten salt or
nuclear Fusion whatever those things
again because because energy is a
primary need um I and as well as food I
think that those Industries are going to
stick around which again is why I think
people like Bill Gates are investing in
farmland and Timberland makes sense to
me if I were in their shoes I do the
same exact thing and then finally
experience Industries so as we all
transition away from uh working you know
the 9 to-5 grind um which I can say from
personal experience yeah like you get
rid of the desk job you you get bored
and you want stuff to do so that means
movie theaters that means restaurants
that means yoga studios that means
Retreats um vacations airbnbs all kinds
of everything around the experience
industry I think is going to be a major
major pillar of uh of the economy moving
forward but again it's going to be
interesting because technically film and
TV are part of the experience industry
but the models the the the cloud
providers that build the models that
write the new TV shows and movies those
are going going to be the ones that
stick around Netflix if they don't pivot
they're not going to stick around Disney
if they don't pivot they're not going to
stick around now I did look it up before
I made this video uh Disney did actually
assemble like a strike force an AI
strike force that they're they're
actively exploring every way that they
can incorporate AI into into their
business so I think Disney is probably
well positioned to stick around um and
and you know they're already using AI
for their animatronics they're already
using AI to help with drafting um movies
uh maybe they should used AI for Ant-Man
Quantum Mania or maybe they did use Ai
and that was the problem I don't
know so what are the industries that I
predict are going to go extinct um First
Healthcare I've mentioned this before
where when you combine regenerative
medicine Rejuvenation therapies um and
all the all the advancements that we're
going to see from alpha fold 2 Alpha
fold 3 and everything else I suspect
that our relationship with Healthcare is
going to be fundamentally and
drastically different uh within 5 to 10
years a lot of people still ask me like
Dave when are we going a hit longevity
escape velocity last year there were
three Rejuvenation Therapies in the
pipeline this year there are 20 um the
economic incentive to to uh to nail
Rejuvenation therapies is so high um and
it it's getting investment from everyone
from DARPA to like allive Silicon Valley
Google has you know alphabet has their
their Rejuvenation their regeneration
therapy Wing um so it's coming the the
money is there where the money go
results follow the same thing has
happened with solar the same thing has
happened with AI so the money is there
it's just a matter of time I remember
you know back in 2010 when I first
started paying attention to solar and
I'm like oh the it's ramping up and now
a lot of Nations and a lot of companies
are exceeding their you know carbon
neutral targets obviously that's a
contentious uh field so I'm not going to
get too bogged down to into it but the
point being is that back in 2010 nobody
nobody thought that like solar would be
where it is today and now it is likewise
the investment is ramping up in
regenerative uh medicine so it's coming
down the pipeline education is going to
is also going to fundamentally change um
you know a lot of us are already using
chat GPT and other tools to learn as
fast as we can um I've actually
consulted with a bunch of different
startups that are trying to do um either
tools for teachers tools for
universities or avatars to to teach uh
students you know if you ever watch Star
Trek Voyager you know you go to the Hol
and you have like a personalized Hol
program with VR that's entirely possible
that you're going to have you know
students have one-on-one mentoring
sessions with holographic avatars that
would be really cool so uh University
Systems are currently uh deeply strained
um and if if uh jobs are going away then
you're not going to be going to
University to get a better job so then
why would you go to university that's a
conversation for another time but that
is something that that some of the
students at Clemson asked um and my my
short answer was uh University
experience is good if you're going to
become a global Citizen and you still
have a Monumental task before you in
helping uh helping the human species
become a truly Global species and a
global culture because we are not right
now we are very very fragmented uh
Financial
automation uh now obviously Wall Street
and the finance industry and the
investment industry that's not going
away um but insurance and a bunch of
other things I honestly suspect that the
margins are going to get too thin on a
lot of these industries and and it's
going to be radically restructured and
then finally as I've been talking about
uh I do think that our relationship with
uh Digital entertainment is going to
fundamentally shift and I think we're
going to see a lot of implosions and a
lot of collapses because again if you
need to pay an aess celebrity $20
million to make a movie or you could
make 200 movies uh with AI for the same
price you might guess which one you're
probably going to do just for the sake
of of economics
uh real quick plug for my patreon um I
have an upcoming webinar master class on
December 8th at 11:00 a.m. us Eastern uh
there's I have two tiers on my patreon
there's the $5 basic tier which gets you
access to Discord and then the $50
premium tier which gets you access to a
bunch more uh exclusive content um but
yeah so go ahead and sign up if you're
interested and moving right back along
into the
show so I mentioned primary needs so
this is a first principal
view of what is it that people need
because there are 8 billion people on
the planet and even if money goes away
tomorrow even if you know everything is
fully automated this is an attempt to
take a first principal view of okay what
is it that people actually need because
where there's a need there's a way
there's if there's a if there's the
biological the animal impetus to achieve
these things we will figure it out so
you know I've got a little infographic
so there's food there's housing there's
water there's energy um so those are all
primary needs and I think that as the
economy pivots those Industries as I
mentioned are going to be the ones that
are the most durable power generation
food preparation production and movement
um homes that sort of thing this is this
is why for instance um many people have
said like you know the Housing Industry
is the safest investment because
everyone needs somewhere to live
likewise food is something that everyone
needs but the margins are already really
thin on food but so this I think is
going to be like focusing on a primary
needs uh uh economic Paradigm is going
to be the first phase of the pivot to
post labor economics because uh people
have talked about like Universal basic
income or Universal basic Services if we
see a commensurate uh price collapse
it's entirely possible that uh
electricity will basically become free
you know at least at the the scale that
most people consume it at you know like
my power bill that I just paid was $180
what if that goes down to $18 a month
because of hyper abundance of solar and
other Renewables what if uh water
becomes practically free um you know
clean uh healthy water because of energy
hyper abundance what if all the KnockOn
effects of AI and automation makes
houses cheaper because the price of
Timber goes down and the price of
concrete goes down and also then the
cost of building houses goes down
because then you can do it with robots
so again I think that I I it is not
outside the realm of possibility that
the cost of living um within the next 5
to 10 years could go down by as much as
like 10x so like you know if your cost
of living right now is $40,000 a year
you might be able to have the same
standard of living with $4,000 a year in
10 years that's kind of what I'm hoping
for because that that uh that price
collapse will offset the reduced
aggregate demand because yes people
might have less money but if everything
is that much cheaper or even even you
know more like let's say prices go down
100x but your your income goes down 10x
you're effectively 10 times wealthier
than you were before so obviously if all
you have in life is just housing and
food and clothes that's relatively
boring so I then took a look at
secondary needs so secondary needs are
the spice of life this is the stuff that
makes life interesting and fun and
engaging and so the categories that I
came up with were Rich experiences so
like travel vacations uh Peak
experiences like concerts and you know
dance clubs and that sort of stuff those
are going to be uh something that is
very persistent there's going to be a
durable demand for that uh creativity
and expression so again as you have more
time and you get away from you know the
office job I and many people like me are
engaging more and more in Creative
Pursuits um I'm writing a novel I know
lots of people that as soon as they
retire they go back to acting and
singing and that sort of thing I know
plenty of people who are painters and
digital artists um and so the industries
around those even if if those are
cottage industries and they're not
primary economic uh drivers the
persistent demand for human creativity
and artistic expression uh is going to
be around as long as there are humans um
intellectual stimulation so there are
many of those many of us who just want
challenges for the sake of challenges so
even if AI can do everything uh you know
people are still going to play chess
again machines are already better than
humans at chess we still play chess
people are still going to be programming
and coding and doing hackathons yes even
if the can do it better you still want
to see you want to test your medal
against uh the machine so reading for
pleasure um those kinds of things
obviously not everyone is a nerd like me
so not everyone is like you know what if
I don't have to use my brain I'm not
goingon to I'm just going to go to the
beach that's perfectly fine too culture
and Community is another aspect that I
think is going to stick around um and
actually probably be magnified so what I
mean is walkable cities green spaces
Parks uh co-living and co-housing
situations um community centers uh
religious uh experiences whether
churches you know there's a lot of talk
around the future of ideology like is
Christianity growing or going away
there's geopolitical tensions between
you know for instance Christianity and
Islam but there's also a Resurgence of
neopaganism uh you know witches are all
the rage right now um so that sort of
thing but then also you know there still
talk about the meaning crisis and that
sort of thing and so people are you know
kind of desperate for that meaning and
that connection particularly when you
think about the fact that we're in the
middle of a loneliness epidemic so the
need for culture community and
spirituality and connection are also
going to be persistent and those are
presently underserved needs I've been a
big fan of the book the status game by
William store and so one thing that I
realized is one question that I get is
okay well if you if you can't if you
can't make money and therefore you can't
uh you know build up your social status
through conspicuous consumption what do
we do um well there's lots of other ways
to build up status you can get famous on
YouTube you can um you know go to the
gym and get a sexy body you can become a
chess Grandmaster there's all kinds of
things that you can do you can become a
musician um social status throughout
history has been largely predicated on
other things other than wealth uh wealth
as a social status is a relatively new
uh phenomenon uh particularly under
capitalism and neoliberalism where you
incentivize people to accumulate more
wealth because against conspicuous
consumption is one of the best ways to
Signal status but there are plenty of
other ways to Signal status uh through
education py spirituality um
intellectual Pursuits physical Pursuits
like athleticism um again like that's
why I picked this image of a bunch of
you know attractive young people laying
on the beach why because part of what's
happening in this image is status
they're signaling their status by
literally showing off their bodies um is
that's one thing that people do and and
if you ever go to the gym there are
people that do that boys and girls men
and women will show off their bodies at
the gym and that's part of why they're
doing it is because it makes them feel
good they go to the gym and they're like
I'm shredded I look really good um so
anyways I do suspect that that as people
come to understand this that a status
economy is going to replace the
attention economy um and we already see
this like you know uh YouTubers and
other influencers that have more
subscribers they're like ah well I've
got you know five times the subscribers
that you do so therefore I'm better so
like it's a popularity contest but that
is a proxy for the STA
contest now this is the biggest thing
that scares me is uh and and this is
what I actually am really interested in
talking to more people about is forming
a new social contract so the current
social contract is around uh a three-way
relationship between the government so
we got Uncle Sam here and then we got
the corporate fat cats and then we've
got Ordinary People um so right now
Uncle Sam the government mediates the
relationship between the businesses and
and the people the Labor uh Workforce
but if the demand for labor goes away
then suddenly the government and
businesses are holding all the cards and
that's a Surefire way to get a dystopian
hellscape so how do we do that how do we
navigate and fix it first we need to
rebalance power um this means that we
need to shift the priority away from
businesses and more towards uh people
and government uh particularly voter
power and we'll do this through through
um through Shoring up Democratic
institutions such as voter reforms
increasing Civic engagement adding new
levers of power that that human or not
humans but well all humans but that
citizens have in terms of steering the
government and ensuring that the
government serves uh the people as much
if not more than businesses we'll need
some sort of redistribution mechanisms
and honestly having some sort of
redistribution behooves the the
businesses because again if consumer if
aggregate consumer demand goes down
that's bad for business right if your if
your customers are all broke that's no
good so we'll need to make sure that
consumers have money to spend in order
to keep the economy going and pretty
much you know some sort of
redistribution whether it's negative
income tax or Ubi or Universal basic
basic
Services we'll need something um the way
that I the way that I articulated it
mathematically is if if wealth and
income in equality gradients are too
steep then you can't go uphill you can't
go uphill forever and this will also
require some kind of regulatory overhaul
now there are a lot of tools in the
toolbox um in terms of fiscal policy and
monetary policy that are already
available so what I suspect is going to
happen is that the establishment is
going to do very small incremental
changes across the board it's not going
to be one big policy it's going to be um
dozens if not hundreds of little
incremental policy changes on a weekly
monthly quarterly annual basis um to to
adjust uh slowly cuz again law of
unintended consequences if you change
too many things at once you might end up
uh making things worse uh which would be
bad so just as a recap on this whole
thing um we're talking at the at the
highest level about knowledge L labor
substitution the four criteria that I
give is better faster cheaper safer as
machines and AI become better faster
cheaper and safer than humans at
knowledge work um one there's no
economic incentive to keep humans in
those jobs um but then it it could also
be considered unethical to keep humans
in those jobs so for instance if a if an
AI doctor is better faster cheaper and
safer than a human Doctor Who are you
going to go to you're going to go to the
robot doctor because the outcomes are
going to be better and it's going to be
cheaper um and in that scenario it might
become unethical to allow humans to
continue practicing medicine uh likewise
for driving once we stick the landing on
full self-driving and you know let's say
let's say that you know uh automatic
cars can drive 10 billion miles uh you
know per F fatality or less it would be
it would might become illegal to allow
humans to continue driving except in
certain
circumstances so that's one thing to
keep in mind uh reduced aggregate demand
is one going to be one of the major uh
economic signals that we're going to be
afraid of because if if aggregate
consumer demand goes down the economy
falters so on and so forth so we'll need
something to Shore that up now again the
the converse of that is price collapse
might kind of offset that so but that's
two very powerful deflationary pressures
which we should expect to see some
deflationary pressure because that's
what technology does it makes goods and
services cheaper um but I don't think
we're ready for how much cheaper some of
those goods and services are going to be
so then I talked about primary needs
which is just first first principle look
at yourself as an animal what is it that
you need and what are you willing to
work or fight or whatever to get that's
food water clothing housing you know
your basic fundamental needs status
economy is going to be a big component
of uh how this all shakes out in terms
of our social living um how we live on a
day-to-day basis some of these things
like some of the goods and services that
stick around will be about status but
when I talk about status economy I'm
talking more about actually how we
allocate our our personal time and
resources we might spend more time at
the gym we might spend more time
practicing piano like that sort of stuff
and I'm talking about myself here like I
was just like I used to play piano as a
kid you know what it might be time for
me to pick that up again why cuz I
enjoyed it and I was pretty good at it
I've completely forgotten at all cuz it
was you know I'm not going to say how
long ago it was it was a long time ago
um new social contract so negotiating a
new social contract honestly changing
the narratives around money and around
democracy is probably the hardest part
of all this because as I said we've got
lots of we got lots of tools in the in
the financial toolbox in terms of
monetary policy and fiscal policy
however in America our narratives around
the ownership class around wealth around
privilege around the elites that is
probably going to be the biggest
sticking point honestly because a lot of
people are temporarily embarrassed
Millionaires and so they're like oh well
protect the millionaire class protect
the corporate class at all costs and
it's like they don't need any protection
they're fine uh so we need to change the
focus from the engines of productivity
to us and I'm not talking about
radically restructuring the entire
economy um but you know we need to
change something um and then finally as
I already mentioned deflationary
pressures so I don't need to rehash that
thanks for watching I hope you got a lot
out of this video like subscribe so on
and so forth I'll see you next time
cheers